# phaser game interaction

In game setup, the background, music, scenes got setup and ready to interact with user input.

In most games, player interact with game objects by input like keyboard or mouse.

<https://rexrainbow.github.io/phaser3-rex-notes/docs/site/input/>

For example, a normal RPG game, player use up, down, left, down keys to control the character move around. Use space and other keys to do some actions like jump, hit.

## keyboard

For key pressing, you can monitor all the key pressings by the KeyboardEvent.

```js
function create() {
  //  Receives every single key down event, regardless of origin or key

  this.input.keyboard.on('keydown', function(event) {
    console.log(event);
  });
}
```

key up or key down

If you press the key for a while, it triggers multiple `keydown` event but only one `keyup` event.

To make the game more robust, use the built-in properties.

```js
var cursors;

function create() {
  cursors = game.input.keyboard.createCursorKeys();
}

function update() {
  if(cursors.left.isDown) {
    catcher.x – = 5;
  }

  if(cursors.right.isDown) {
    catcher.x += 5;
  }

  if(cursors.up.isDown) {
    catcher.y – = 5;
  }

  if(cursors.down.isDown) {
    catcher.y += 5;
  }
}

```

or in the update, you observe certain key press

```js
if (game.input.keyboard.isDown(Phaser.Input.Keyboard.KeyCodes.LEFT)) {
  //acceleration, fire bullets, anything else that needs a constant press
}
```

In Chrome console, type in the following: `Phaser.Input.Keyboard.KeyCodes`

`Phaser.Input.Keyboard.KeyCodes.Q`

## mouse

## Interaction manager

`setInteractive(shape, callback, dropZone)`

Pass this Game Object to the Input Manager to enable it for Input.

Input works by using hit areas, these are nearly always geometric shapes, such as rectangles or circles, that act as the hit area for the Game Object. However, you can provide your own hit area shape and callback, should you wish to handle some more advanced input detection.

If no arguments are provided it will try and create a rectangle hit area based on the texture frame the Game Object is using. If this isn't a texture-bound object, such as a Graphics or BitmapText object, this will fail, and you'll need to provide a specific shape for it to use.

`disableInteractive()`

If this Game Object has previously been enabled for input, this will queue it for removal, causing it to no longer be interactive. The removal happens on the next game step, it is not immediate.

The Interactive Object that was assigned to this Game Object will be destroyed, removed from the Input Manager and cleared from this Game Object.

If you wish to re-enable this Game Object at a later date you will need to re-create its InteractiveObject by calling `setInteractive` again.

If you wish to only temporarily stop an object from receiving input then use `disableInteractive` instead, as that toggles the interactive state, where-as this erases it completely.

If you wish to resize a hit area, don't remove and then set it as being interactive. Instead, access the hitarea object directly and resize the shape being used. I.e.: `sprite.input.hitArea.setSize(width, height)` (assuming the shape is a Rectangle, which it is by default.)

`removeInteractive()`
