# Scene pipeline

## preload()

It doesn't matter which way to create the scenes, each way has preload(), create() and update().

The preload phase is used to load in any asset (whether it be audio, textual, graphical, or a specialized type) into the game before the game runs.

This ensures the assets will be ready for use in the game and not suddenly appear only once the game play has begun.

### load shortcut method

#### image

```js
function preload() {
  this.load.setBaseURL('http://labs.phaser.io');
  this.load.image('sky', 'assets/sky.png');
  this.load.image('ground', 'assets/platform.png');
  this.load.image('star', 'assets/star.png');
  this.load.image('bomb', 'assets/bomb.png');
  this.load.spritesheet('dude', 'assets/dude.png', {
    frameWidth: 32,
    frameHeight: 48
  });
}
```

##### png

#### sound

#### spritesheet

tilemap

## create()

Create is used for generating game objects so to get the game completely set up and ready to run. This means creating the objects that will first appear in the game, setting up user interface elements, and generally getting anything out of the way that doesn't need an update timer but does need to be in the game.

### add shortcut method

"add" is the shortcut method to add content like text, image onto the scene.

```js
var config = {
  title: 'Awesome',
  scene: {
    preload: preload,
    create: create,
    update: update
  }
};

var game = new Phaser.Game(config);

function create() {
  this.add.image(400, 300, 'sky');

  var text = this.add.text(80, 550, '', {
    font: '16px Courier',
    fill: '#ffffff'
  });

  text.setText(['Game Title: ' + game.config.gameTitle]);
}
```

### make shortcut method

"make" is the shortcut method to add sprite and so on

### text

use scene.add.text to add some text instance on the screen.

The instance has the setText method to set the text for that instance.

### Group

```js
function create() {
  var group = this.add.group();

  var image1 = this.add.image(0, 0, 'img1');

  group.add(image1);

  var image2 = this.add.image(0, 100, 'img2');

  group.add(image2);

  Phaser.Actions.SetXY(group.getChildren(), 400, 300);
}
```

## update()

Game engines are built upon "game loop". The loop is the place where positions are changed, collisions are checked, input is taken, AI is
calculated, and any other miscellaneous tasks are completed. In Phaser, the game loop method is the update method.

Update method is called during the core game loop after debug, physics, plugins and the Stage have had their preUpdate methods called. It is used for user input polling and game object collisions and detection. This method is often used to capture game events, such as key presses, button clicks, mouse movement etc, and to then update the game scene variables as a result of those inputs.

It is called on every frame. The engine attempts to execute, at best efforts, 60 times per second, but that is not guaranteed. It is called BEFORE Stage, Tweens, Sounds, Input, Physics, Particles, and Plugins have had their postUpdate methods called.
